The Administrative distance of a Directly Connected route is 0
The Administrative distance of a Static route is 1

Administrative Distance is a metric used by routers to rank the trustworthiness of different routing information sources when multiple routing protocols provide routes to the same destination.
The protocol with the lower AD is considered more reliable and is preferred. AD is an integer value from 0 to 255.

Common default AD values
Connected interface: 0
Static route: 1

- FIRST HOP REDUNDANCY PROTOCOLS use a Virtual IP and MAC address to allow for automated gateway failover. For example, if we have two routers, that we want to configure redundancy for, the two routers can have FHRP configured on them and they would negotiate the Virtual IP amongst themselves.
- The hosts use the VIP as their default gateway address
- If a physical gateway fails, another gateway will take over

- FIRST HOP REDUNDANCY PROTOCOLS
1. Hot Standby Router Protocol (HSRP): Cisco proprietary. Deployed in active/standby pair.
2. Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol (VRRP): Open Standard. Deployed in active/standby pair. Very similar to HSRP.
3. Gateway Load Balancing Protocol (GLBP): Cisco proprietary. Supports active/active load balancing across multiple routers

HSRP Operations
1. Both routers have a normal physical IP address and MAC address on their HSRP interface. Unique addresses are used on both routers
2. They both also have the HSRP virtual IP and MAC address configured on the interface. The same addresses are used on both routers.
3. When they come online, one is elected the HSRP active router, the other is the standby
4. The active router owns the virtual IP and MAC address and responds to ARP requests
5. All traffic for the VIP goes through the active router
6. The routers send hello messages to each other over their HSRP interface
7. If the standby router stops receiving hellos from the active it will transition to be the active router
8. It will take ownership of the virtual IP and MAC address and respond to ARP requests.
9. The higher IP address between the routers is selected as ACTIVE by default

HSRP Priority and Pre-emption
1. You can choose which router will be the active by setting priority on the routers
2. The router with the higher priority will be preferred (default is 100)
3. In the event of a tie the highest IP address wins
4. If pre-emption is also enabled, when a higher priority router comes back online after a failure it will transition back to active
5. If pre-emption is not enabled(default), the lower priority router will remain active when the failed router comes back online
6. This can be more stable if a higher priority router is flapping
